DEEP LEARNING

UNIT-I: 
Basics- Biological Neuron, Idea of computational units, McCulloch–Pitts unit and Thresholding 
logic, Linear Perceptron, Perceptron Learning Algorithm, Linear separability, Convergence theorem 
for Perceptron Learning Algorithm. 

UNIT-II: 

Feed forward Networks- Multilayer Perceptron, Gradient Descent, Back propagation, Empirical 
Risk Minimization, regularization, auto encoders. Deep Neural Networks: Difficulty of training 
deep neural networks, Greedylayer wise training. 

UNIT-III: 
Better Training of Neural Networks –Newer optimization methods for neural networks 
(Adagrad, adadelta, rmsprop, adam, NAG), second order methods for training, Saddle point 
problem in neural networks, Regularization methods (dropout, drop connect, batch 
normalization). 

UNIT IV: 
Recurrent Neural Networks- Back propagation through time, Long Short-Term Memory, Gated 
Recurrent Units, Bidirectional LSTMs, Bidirectional RNNs. 
Convolutional Neural Networks: LeNet, AlexNet. Generative models: Restrictive Boltzmann 
Machines (RBMs), Introduction to MCMC and Gibbs Sampling, gradient computations in 
RBMs, Deep Boltzmann Machines. 

UNIT V: 
Recenttrends-VariationalAutoencoders,Transformers,GPT Applications: Vision, NLP, Speech 

COMPUTER NETWORKS

UNIT I: Introduction   
Types of Computer Networks, Reference Models- The OSI Reference Model, The TCP/IP 
Reference Model, A Critique of the OSI Model and Protocols, A Critique of the TCP/IP Reference 
Model. History of Internet. 

UNIT II: The Data Link Layer  
Transmission Media, Guided and Un-guided media, Data Link Layer Design Issues, Services 
Provided to the Network Layer, Error detecting and Error Correcting codes, Elementary Data Link 
Protocols, Sliding Window Protocols, HDLC, PPP. Multiple Access Protocols Wired Lans: 
Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet 

UNIT III: The Network Layer 
Network LayerDesign Issues, Routing Algorithms, Congestion, Congestion control algorithms. The 
Network Layer in the Internet, The IP Version 4 Protocol, IP Addresses- Classful, CIDR, NAT, IP 
Version 6 Protocol, Transition from IPV4 to IPV6 

UNIT IV: The Transport Layer  
The Transport Layer Services, Transport Layer Protocols: UDP, TCP and SCTP  

UNIT V: The Application Layer  
The World Wide Web, HTTP, Domain Name Space, Remote Loging, Electronic Mail and File 
Transfer

OPERATING SYSTEMS 

UNIT-I: 
3 
Operating Systems Overview: Introduction, Operating system functions, Operating systems 
operations, Computing environments, Free and Open-Source Operating Systems System Structures: 
Operating System Services, User and Operating-System Interface, system calls, Types of System 
Calls, system programs, Operating system Design and Implementation, Operating system structure, 
Building and Booting an Operating System, Operating system debugging 

UNIT-II: 
Processes: Process Concept, Process scheduling, Operations on processes, Inter-process 
communication. Threads and Concurrency: Multi threading models, Thread libraries, Threading 
issues. CPU Scheduling: Basic concepts, Scheduling criteria, Scheduling algorithms, Multiple 
processor scheduling. 

UNIT–III: 
Synchronization Tools: The Critical Section Problem, Peterson’s Solution, Mutex Locks, 
semaphores, Monitors, Classic problems of Synchronization. Deadlocks: system Model, Dead lock 
characterization, Methods for handling Dead locks,Deadlock prevention, Deadlock avoidance, 
Deadlock detection, Recovery from Deadlock. 

UNIT-IV: 
Memory-Management Strategies: Introduction, Contiguous memory allocation, Paging,Structureof 
the Page Table, Swapping.VirtualMemoryManagement:Introduction,Demandpaging, Copy-on
write,Pagereplacement Allocation of frames, StorageManagement:OverviewofMassStorageStructure,HDDScheduling. 

UNIT-V: 
FileSystem:FileSystemInterface:Fileconcept,Accessmethods,DirectoryStructure;File 
Thrashing system Implementation: File-system structure, File-system Operations, Directory implementation, 
Allocation method, Free space management; File-System Internals:File-SystemMounting, Partitions and Mounting, File Sharing.Protection:Goals 
ofprotection,Principlesofprotection,ProtectionRings,Domainof protection, Access matrix

Internet of Things 

UNIT-I: 
The Internet of Things: An Overview of Internet of things, Internet of Things Technology, behind 
IoTs Sources of the IoTs, M2M Communication, Examples of IoTs, Design Principles For 
Connected Devices Internet Connectivity Principles, Internet connectivity, Application Layer 
Protocols: HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, Telnet. 

UNIT-II: 
Business Models for Business Processes in the Internet of Things, IoT/M2M systems LAYERS AND 
designs standardizations, Modified OSI Stack for the IoT/M2M Systems, ETSI M2M domains and 
High- level capabilities, Communication Technologies, Data Enrichment and Consolidation and 
Device Management Gateway Ease of designing and affordability 

UNIT-III: 
Design Principles for the Web Connectivity for connected-Devices, Web Communication protocols 
for Connected Devices, Message Communication protocols for Connected Devices, Web 
Connectivity for connected-Devices. 

UNIT-IV: 
Data Acquiring, Organizing and Analytics in IoT/M2M, Applications /Services /Business Processes, 
IOT/M2M Data Acquiring and Storage, Business Models for Business Processes in the Internet of 
Things, Organizing Data, Transactions, Business Processes, Integration and Enterprise Systems. 

UNIT-V: 
Data Collection, Storage and Computing Using a Cloud Platform for IoT/M2M 
Applications/Services, Data Collection, Storage and Computing Using cloud platform Everything as 
a service and Cloud Service Models, IOT cloud-based services using the Xively (Pachube/COSM), 
Nimbits and other platforms Sensor, Participatory Sensing, Actuator, Radio Frequency 
Identification, and Wireless, Sensor Network Technology, Sensors Technology, Sensing the World. 

Entreprenuership development and business ventures

Unit 1: Entrepreneurship Fundamentals & Context
Meaning and concept, attributes and mindset of entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial leadership, role models in each and their role in economic development. An understanding of how to build entrepreneurial mindset, skillsets, attributes and networks while on campus.
Core Teaching Tool: Simulation, Game, Industry Case Studies (Personalized for students 16 industries to choose from), Venture Activity

Unit II: Problem & Customer Identification
Understanding and analysing the macro-Problem and Industry perspective, technological, socio economic and urbanization trends and their implication on new opportunities. Identifying passion, identifying and defining problem using Design thinking principles. Analysing problem and validating with the potential customer. Iterating problem-customer fit. Understanding customer segmentation, creating and validating customer personas. Competition and Industry trends mapping and assessing initial opportunity.
Core Teaching Tool: Several types of activities including Class, game, Gen Al, 'Get out of the Building and Venture Activity.

Unit III: Solution design, Prototyping & Opportunity Assessment and Sizing
Understanding Customer Jobs-to-be-done and crafting innovative solution design to map to customer's needs and create a strong value proposition. Developing Problem-solution fit in an iterative manner. Understanding prototyping and MVP. Developing a feasibility prototype with differentiating value, features and benefits. Initial testing for proof-of-concept and iterate on the prototype. Assess relative market position via competition analysis, sizing the market and assess scope and potential scale of the opportunity.
Core Teaching Tool: Venture Activity, no-code Innovation tools, Class activity

Unit IV: Business & Financial Model, Go-to-Market Plan
Introduction to Business model and types, Lean approach, 9 block lean canvas model, riskiest assumptions to Business models. Importance of Build - Measure Lean approach.
Business planning: components of Business plan- Sales plan, People plan and financial plan.
Financial Planning: Types of costs, preparing a financial plan for profitability using financial
template, understanding basics of Unit economics and analysing financial performance.
Introduction to Marketing and Sales, Selecting the Right Channel, creating digital presence, building customer acquisition strategy.
Choosing a form of business organization specific to your venture, identifying sources of funds: Debt & Equity, Map the Start-up Lifecycle to Funding Options.
Core Teaching Tool: Founder Case Studies- Sama and SecurelyShare; Class activity and discussions; Venture Activities.

Unit V: Scale Outlook and Venture Pitch readiness
Understand and identify potential and aspiration for scale vis a vis your venture idea. Persuasive Storytelling and its key components. Build an Investor ready pitch deck.
Core Teaching Tool: Expert talks; Cases; Class activity and discussions; Venture Activities

